Now that you know how
projections work,
I'll show you how
you can combine
several planes to help
identify one hash value.
In other words, I
will show you how to
identify where a data point
is given several planes.
In the last video, you saw how
by the sign of the dot product
between the normal vector of
a plane and a vector
presenting your data,
you could get a relative
position relative to that plane.
In this lecture,
I'm going to show
you how to use this
information for
multiple planes to get
a hash value for your data
in your vector space.
In order to divide
your vector space
into manageable regions,
you'll want to use
more than one plane.
For each plane, you
can find out whether
a vector is on
the positive or negative
side of that plane.
You'll get multiple
signals, one,
for each plane and you
want to find a way to
combine all of those signals
into a single hash value.
This hash value will define
a particular region
within the vector space.
Let's walk through an
example then you will see
the general formula for
combining signals
from multiple planes.
For a single vector,
let's say that its dot product
with Plane 1 is three,
so the sign is positive
and the hash value is
set to one to indicate
that the sign is positive.
For the second plane,
the dot product is five.
The sign is again positive
and the hash value is one.
For the third plane,
the dot product is negative 2.
The sign is negative 1
and the hash value
is set to zero to
indicate that the vector v
is on the negative
side of Plane 3.
To combine these intermediate
hash values into
a single hash value,
you'll do the following.
Take 2^0 times h_1 plus 2^1
times h_2 plus 2^2 times h_3.
This gives us a combined
hash value of three.
Just as a reminder,
you have multiple planes
and it helps us to
divide the vector space
into smaller sub-regions.
But you want to have
a single hash value
so you will know which bucket
to assign the vector in.
You do this by combining
the signals from
all the planes into
a single hash value.
Here are the rules you
applied written out.
If the sign of the dot product
is greater than
or equal to zero,
assign the intermediate
hash value of one.
Otherwise, if the dot
product is less than zero,
assign the intermediate
hash value of zero.
To combine the
intermediate hash values
, use this formula.
This is how you get
locality sensitive hashing.
Let's implement this in code.
Given a list of
planes in a vector,
start with a hash value
of zero which you'll
use to accumulate the sum of
intermediate hash values.
Then for each plane,
you want to calculate the
sign of the dot product.
Set the intermediate
hash value to one
if the sign is greater
than or equal to zero.
I'll set it to zero.
Then you multiply the
intermediate hash value by two,
raised to the ith power and
add it to the hash value.
Finally, you return
the hash value.
If you run code in
the lecture notebook,
you'll get the same results
as the example you saw earlier.
Go ahead and try it out.
Now you've seen
what it means for
a hash function to be locality
sensitive and you've seen
examples of such hash functions.
Next, you'll see how
this is useful for
the speeding up of the k
nearest neighbor computation.
Let's go to the next video.